the optimist horas are starting to give
birth most see reptiles return to the
land to lay eggs but not optimus horas
they give birth to live young this frees
the adults from the need to crawl out of
the water and has allowed them to evolve
their fish like shapes a single female
has between two and five pups but since
they are air breathers the young must be
born tailed first otherwise they would
drown in the time it takes them to
escape from the mother
the newborn pups have just a few seconds
to reach the surface and take their
first breath
from the moment they are born the little
pups are vulnerable these waters are
full of predators even adult Optimus
Oris will eat the offspring of others to
increase the chance of survival for
their own pups the only real safety is
amongst the crags of coral
birth is a dangerous time for the
mothers too this female is trying
desperately to expel her unborn
offspring fighting for air she stays
near the surface
her struggles are a lure to sharks these
predators have acute hearing and the
sound of splashing betrays an animal in
distress
as perfectly evolved killing machines
sharks were patrolling the oceans long
before marine reptiles appeared
after 20 minutes her exertions are
exhausting her she is having to breathe
more frequently
the shock start to move in closer
suddenly something lurking in the gloom
scatters the sharks
you